<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="merging_pull_requests">
    <title>Reviewing and Merging Pull Requests</title>
    <shortdesc>Procedure to follow when merging <term>Pull Requests</term> (<q>PRs</q>) to the <ph
            conref="../../reusables/phrases.dita#phrases/ph_gxh_bcv_vnb"/> repository.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author type="creator">Pablo Klaschka</author>
        <critdates>
            <created date="2021-02-10"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>Pull Requests</indexterm>
                <indexterm>Pull Requests <indexterm>reviewing</indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm>Pull Requests <indexterm>merging</indexterm></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>To make sure everything wors as it should, please use the following steps when
                reviewing and merging a Pull Request.</p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Review the Pull Request throughly</cmd>
                <choicetable relcolwidth="1* 1*" id="choicetable_kzy_4r4_p4b">
                    <chhead>
                        <choptionhd>Condition</choptionhd>
                        <chdeschd>Procedure</chdeschd>
                    </chhead>
                    <chrow>
                        <choption>There are problems in the code that the contributor can probably
                            fix</choption>
                        <chdesc>Kindly request the changes in the review</chdesc>
                    </chrow>
                    <chrow>
                        <choption>There are problems in the code that the contributor obviously
                            can't fix themselves (may that be because of a lack of skill, knowledge,
                            or time)</choption>
                        <chdesc>Redirect the Pull Request onto a separate branch. Upon merging, you
                            can perform the necessary changes on that branch, and then, merge it
                            into the main branch.<note>When merging the contribution to the
                                temporary branch, use the same procedure as when merging into
                                    <q>main</q>, use the correct conventional commits on the
                                temparary branch, and then merge into <q>main</q> by rebase to keep
                                the contribution history.</note></chdesc>
                    </chrow>
                    <chrow>
                        <choption>Everything looks good</choption>
                        <chdesc>Approve the PR</chdesc>
                    </chrow>
                </choicetable>
                <info>Under all circumstances, be appreciative about and thank the contributor for
                    their contribution.</info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>If the PR makes significant changes to a part not primarily maintained by you,
                    request a review from the primary maintainer</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Verify that the contributor has signed the CLA.</cmd>
                <info>
                    <note type="tip">This doesn't apply for automated contributions, such as
                        automated dependency updates.</note>
                </info>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Verify that all CI Workflows run successfully</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>When everything looks good and all relevant maintainers have approved the PR,
                    merge it by using the fitting procedure from below</cmd>
                <choicetable relcolwidth="1* 1*" id="choicetable_jwp_dt4_p4b">
                    <chhead>
                        <choptionhd>Condition</choptionhd>
                        <chdeschd>Merge Procedure</chdeschd>
                    </chhead>
                    <chrow>
                        <choption>The Pull Request uses only correct conventional commits (often
                            marked by PR names starting with <q>MERGE-BY-REBASE</q>)</choption>
                        <chdesc>Merge using <uicontrol>Rebase and Merge</uicontrol></chdesc>
                    </chrow>
                    <chrow>
                        <choption>The Pull Request doesn't follow conventional commits, and
                            implements only one conventional commit (for example, one feature or
                            fix)</choption>
                        <chdesc>Merge using <uicontrol>Squash and Merge</uicontrol>, using a fitting
                            conventional commit message</chdesc>
                    </chrow>
                    <chrow>
                        <choption>The Pull Request doesn't follow conventional commits and includes
                            more than one significant change that you want to include in the
                            Changlogs</choption>
                        <chdesc>Rebase the commits on the branch itself, or, if unable, merge single
                            commits, one by one, onto a temporary branch where you can rebase them
                            to follow the conventional commit structure.<note type="tip">You can use
                                a simple Squash and Merge if, for example, a feature (at the same
                                time) fixes a bug. In these cases, please include a <q>Closes:
                                    #XXX</q> reference in the footer of the squashed
                            commit.</note></chdesc>
                    </chrow>
                </choicetable>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Thank the contributor for their contribution</cmd>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <result id="result_bht_mkp_p4b">The changes are now in the <q>main</q> and will get released
            in the next release.</result>
    </taskbody>
</task>
