<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dita">
    <title>DITA</title>
    <shortdesc>The <term>Darwin Information Typing Architecture</term>, or short, <term>DITA</term>,
        is an XML standard for authoring and publishing technical documentation. It's originally
        developed by IBM and now maintained by OASIS.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author>Pablo Klaschka</author>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm>DITA</indexterm>
                <indexterm>Darwin Information Typing
                    Architecture<index-see>DITA</index-see></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>DITA allows semantic markup of technical documentation. This means that instead of
            defining how the documentation should look, authors define what the information
            represents and it then gets formatted appropriately for the platform it's viewed in.</p>
        <p>DITA is a topic-based writing style. This means that one first writes self-contained
            topics which can be concepts (overviews of a concept, such as this article about DITA),
            tasks (step by step tutorials) or references (data tables etc.).</p>
        <p>Topics later get grouped by DITA Maps (<filepath>.ditamap</filepath> files). In this
            step, references between topics can get created. This is usually the task of an
            information architect.</p>
        <p>In the last step, these maps can get transformed into user-readable output. This can be
            PDF files, websites, or any other format imaginable. For that task, tools such as the
            DITA Open Toolkit get used.</p>
    </conbody>
    <related-links>
        <link href="https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Darwin_Information_Typing_Architecture"
            format="html" scope="external">
            <linktext>Wikipedia Article</linktext>
        </link>
    </related-links>
</concept>
