<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="npm">
    <title><cmdname>npm</cmdname></title>
    <shortdesc><cmdname>npm</cmdname> is a package manager for applications written in JavaScript
        (often running on NodeJS)</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author>Pablo Klaschka</author>
        <author type="contributor">Pablo Klaschka</author>
        <critdates>
            <!--Pablo Klaschka-->
            <revised modified="2020-12-04"/>
        </critdates>
        <metadata>
            <keywords>
                <indexterm><cmdname>npm</cmdname></indexterm>
                <indexterm><cmdname>npm</cmdname><indexterm><cmdname>install</cmdname></indexterm><indexterm><cmdname>ci</cmdname></indexterm></indexterm>
                <indexterm><filepath>package.json</filepath></indexterm>
                <indexterm><filepath>package-lock.json</filepath></indexterm>
                <indexterm><filepath>node_modules</filepath></indexterm>
            </keywords>
        </metadata>
    </prolog>
    <conbody>
        <p>Similar to PIP for Python world or composer for PHP, <cmdname>npm</cmdname> is a package
            manager for JavaScript, allowing installation and management of project dependencies
            (such as libraries, build tools and more).</p>
        <section id="section_cjg_c4b_qmb">
            <title><filepath>package.json</filepath></title>
            <p><cmdname>npm</cmdname> uses a file called <filepath>package.json</filepath> to keep
                track of the required dependencies. Dependencies will, themselves, have a
                    <filepath>package.json</filepath> that can also list dependencies. Installing
                dependices using the <userinput><cmdname>npm</cmdname> install</userinput>  command
                will automatically resolve and install these recorsive dependencies.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_cvn_l4b_qmb">
            <title><filepath>package-lock.json</filepath></title>
            <p>The <filepath>package-lock.json</filepath> file gets generated when running
                        <userinput><cmdname>npm</cmdname> install</userinput> and notes the exact
                dependency versions that you've installed. Later, by running
                        <userinput><cmdname>npm</cmdname> ci</userinput>, these exact versions can
                be re-installed, allowing for a consistent working environment.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="section_y1b_34b_qmb">
            <title><filepath>node_modules</filepath></title>
            <p><cmdname>npm</cmdname> installs the project dependencies in the
                    <filepath>node_modules</filepath> directory. As this will, after installation,
                often contain a lot of files that can get re-installed, it's recommended to include
                the folder in your <filepath>.gitignore</filepath> file.</p>
        </section>
        <example>
            <title>Installing an npm package</title>
            <p>For this example, say you want to install the <varname>dita-ot-helper</varname>
                package. To do so, in your project folder, you
                run<codeblock>$ <userinput>npm install dita-ot-helper</userinput></codeblock></p>
            <p>This installs the package (and all its dependencies) in the
                    <filepath>node_modules</filepath> folder and adds it to the dependencies in the
                    <filepath>package.json</filepath>
                file:<codeblock>{
    "dependencies": {
        "dita-ot-helper": "^0.1.0"
    }
}</codeblock></p>
        </example>
    </conbody>
    <related-links>
        <link href="https://www.npmjs.com/" format="html" scope="external">
            <linktext>npm Container Registry</linktext>
        </link>
    </related-links>
</concept>
