<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN" "reference.dtd">
<reference id="roles">
    <title>External Roles</title>
    <shortdesc>External Roles (users) who need to get targeted by Documentation, Requirements,
        etc.</shortdesc>
    <prolog>
        <author>Pablo Klaschka</author>
    </prolog>
    <refbody>
        <table id="table_jys_qyh_nmb">
            <title>External Roles</title>
            <tgroup cols="3">
                <colspec colname="Role" colnum="1" colsep="1"/>
                <colspec colname="c2" colnum="2"/>
                <colspec colname="c3" colnum="3"/>
                <thead>
                    <row>
                        <entry>Role</entry>
                        <entry>DITA Audience Name</entry>
                        <entry>Description</entry>
                    </row>
                </thead>
                <tbody>
                    <row>
                        <entry><keyword>End-User</keyword></entry>
                        <entry><varname>eu</varname></entry>
                        <entry>
                            <p>"Simple" end-user that uses the software via its frontend. This might be a scientist using the software to view the results. The only important aspect for such a user is the "simple" usage of the frontend. They don't have to care about the technical details
                            </p>
                        </entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry><keyword>Operator</keyword></entry>
                        <entry><varname>op</varname></entry>
                        <entry>The person responsible for the operations of our project within an
                            adopting team. Needs to be able to troubleshoot quickly on-premise.
                            Therefore requires an understanding of the technical side (on a high
                            level), troubleshooting guides and points of contact within our
                            project</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry><keyword>Integration Developer</keyword></entry>
                        <entry><varname>be-ext-dev</varname></entry>
                        <entry>Develops backend-integrations to integrate Telestion into a specific
                            project. Requires a high-level understanding of the technical side of
                            the project, a firm understanding (reference) of the extension points of
                            the Backend, resources to get started without frustration and a point of
                            contact to a Developer Advocate</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry><keyword>Widget Developer</keyword></entry>
                        <entry><varname>fe-ext-dev</varname></entry>
                        <entry>Develops custom data visualizations for the Frontend. Requires a
                            high-level understanding of the technical side of the project, a firm
                            understanding (reference) of the extension points of the Frontend,
                            resources to get started without frustration and a point of contact to a
                            Developer Advocate</entry>
                    </row>
                    <row>
                        <entry><keyword>Decision Maker</keyword></entry>
                        <entry><varname>dm</varname></entry>
                        <entry>The person deciding whether a project should adopt the Telestion
                            project for its purposes. Requires a high-level overview (or Whitepaper)
                            of what we do and don't provide to take an educated decision</entry>
                    </row>
                </tbody>
            </tgroup>
        </table>
    </refbody>
    <related-links>
        <link href="../concepts/roles.dita"/>
        <link href="./internal_roles.dita"/>
    </related-links>
</reference>
